Factorio

This is a game about building factories

it draws concepts from games like minecraft, starcraft, and other games to make something unique

it scratches a really specific itch, and is a very niche and nice game

Heres a discription from the wiki

Factorio is a game about mining resources, planning and building factories, automating production and fighting alien enemies. You are a survivor from space colonist's mission gone awry, and you find yourself alone on the surface of a hostile alien planet. With nothing but the raw stones and ores as your feet, your only hope for survival is to slowly build your automated machines and factories from the ground up to produce the equipment and defences needed for survival on this strange world. Apart from efficiently designing and maintaining your army of machines, you will need to protect your factory and yourself from the unfriendly alien hordes who want nothing more than to burn and pillage your hard-earned automations.

This game will be very open ended, but keep in mind is only in public alpha right now.

A lot of games have been going into public alpha the past couple of years, and some of them benefit greatly from it, others do not.  Some games just dont have enough content to be properly tested, and give a poor impression of what the final game will be.

I found out about this game at just the right time I think, as it has just enough content to get me really excited about it and enjoy playing it before it is even finished.  It also has a growing community of dedicated players who are giving important critical feed back and helping to find all the bugs. 

I think this is a game that has benefited greatly from the use of a public alpha.

Overall, the current status of the alpha is fantastic.  It only has room to get better as more content is added to the game

So here we are on the surface of this unknown world.  We are given some iron plates, a few simple machines, and not much else.

We are free to explore the surrounding area.  Generally You can encounter 2 different sorts of things.  Resources, and aliens.  Resources include forests, lakes, ores, coal, and stone.  Aliens include biters, biter spawners, and worms.  This is all that exists on this world without your intervention.

Now the aliens HATE polution.  Think of them as ecoterrorists who have devolved into zerg offshoots.  They havent gotten any less violent in the process either.  Now, ive got peaceful mode on for the purposes of this introduction, but generally the natives will start to come after you the moment you start burning coal. Starting with a few sporatic biters who you can easily dispatch with a few shots of the pistol you landed on the planet with, but quickly it will become more than you can handle without establishing some sort of automated defense.

And thats really the overarching theme of this game.  Do something manually, see how tedius and frustrating it is to do something the slow way, then discover a way to automate that process and move onto larger things.  You will start off being forced to mine individual bits of coal and ores, having to feed them into machines by hand.  Then you learn about inserters and conveyors and you can actually begin to stockpile resources.  Then you start building more machines. You need labs to unlock new features via research, but you need to combine a lot of different resources configured into many different forms in order to get anywhere in this research however.

 At first you build gears and copper wires by hand, but then you discover just how long it would take to develop everything you will need, so you discover automated assemblers.  Then you need to start designing production lines, figuring out how to process you ores and how to direct them around your factory in an effecient way.  Then you learn about energy, and how to abandon coal power in favour of steam or solar based energy.  

 At this point youve either decided that this game is disgustingly boring, or you have your face so close to the monitor that you are going cross eyed.  This game for me is insanely moreish, simply due to the fact that it engrosses me, and I never run out of things to do once I start a factory.