Right and wrong



In english we use the words "Right" and "Wrong" to describe a lot of different things.  You can communicate the idea of Right and Wrong by:
  - giving a thumbs up/down
  - shakink/nodding your head
  - saying positive or negative words, yes/no, right/wrong
  - using body languages to express (dis)satisfaction
  - more

  Many of these communcations are black and white.  If you order some food and the order is incorrect, these words suggest that the order was either right or wrong.  100% correct or 0% correct.  But this isn't really true, is it?

  Your order may have been for a large coffee with 2 milks, but you instead got a large coffee with 3 milks.  That is perhaps wrong, but you could have been given a sandwich instead.  That's objectively more wrong than one extra milk in an otherwise 100% correct order.

  This may seem slightly absurd, since there is no way to really measure how correct a coffee order is in this way, but its important to recognize the relativity of wrong that exists in all things.

  There is a quote from an essay called "The Relativity of Wrong", which says this:

  "When people thought the earth was flat, they were wrong. When people thought the earth was spherical, they were wrong. But if you think that thinking the earth is spherical is just as wrong as thinking the earth is flat, then your view is wronger than both of them put together."

  I think this describes the problem exactly.  To be pedantic and technical, the Earth is an oblate sphereoid. Spheres are a mathematical description of something that is round in the same way that a circle is round. If I drew an oval and asked you what shape it was, you would likely tell me it was an oval. To call it a circle would be, to some extent, incorrect. However, if I drew a perfect circle, and you called it a straight line, you would be quite wrong.  In the case of calling the Earth round, I think this is just a handy approximation.  To say that pi is equal to 3.14, you would be wrong, but not nearly as wrong as someone who said 3. If I were to say pi = 3.14159 26535 89793 23846 2( as far as i could get without looking it up ) I would still be wrong, just not very wrong COMPARED to the person who said 3.14 and a HELL of a lot more accurate that said 3.

  But because of these absolutes that have been ingrained in our minds, they often lead us to think that situations are black and white when there always exists a relativity of wrong.

  To talk about absolutes with right and wrong is an exercise in futility.  What is ABSOLUTE right and ABSOLUTE wrong? Is Hitler absolute in his wrongness? Is there any limit on how wrong something can be?

  I think this important to think about in all the things that you do, because we encounter right and wrong everywhere in our lives.  If we dont appreciate the relativity of wrong, we can become black and white thinkers. 

  At work, if I were to make a mistake on a project, I would be wrong.  They requested something, and 100% right is matching their request exactly.  Some people may see this as black and white.  If the mistake caused a small problem or was otherwise minimal in its damage, it is not as wrong as a mistake which caused large problems and even large amounts of money for the company.  In my black and white thinking, I can often lead myself into anxiety by overreacting to small mistakes.  Should I strive to not make the same mistakes and learn from them? Yes; but I should not see the situation as absolute, I should see the relativity of wrong.

  A grading system is what we use to measure wrongnes in school and other tests.  

  In elementary school we get a letter scale: A, B, C, D, and then F ( which stands for "Fuck 'E' I hate that letter anyways" )

  In highschool, we get percentages.  I like this approach for asessing the wrongess of something.  I try to see my mistakes as degrees of wrong.  Maybe I was only 10% wrong or even 30% wrong, but at least I wasn't 90% wrong.  


  Right and wrong are the same thing. 0% wrong is 100% right.  We could have received grades in wrong instead.  0% would be the best possible grade, 50% would be still be the fail threshould, but 100% wrong in your class? Imagine if you were at the top of your class and received bonus marks on top of perfect performance.  Would you receive a grade of -15%?  

  Perhaps a bizzare anology, but what I am getting at is the parity of right and wrong, and how they apply to pretty much EVERYTHING.

  Many situations can have absolute right and wrong But

  ans how do you effectively determine 100% wrong? 0% is defined, but 100% stretches awkwardly out into infinity

    In the context of circling something to draw attention to it, a circle can be any vaguely round shape.  But I think most people distinguish the difference between a circle and an oval. I think the problem is that 'Spheroid' isn't a commonly used word when describing shapes.




